.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH FROZEN-BUBBLE-EDITOR 6 "February 2, 2003" "FBE" "The Frozen-Bubble Level editor"

.SH NAME
frozen-bubble-editor \- a level editor for Frozen Bubble

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B frozen-bubble-editor
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
This editor lets you manipulate level-sets, in which you can add, remove
and modify levels thanks to a mouse-oriented interface (there are also
many interesting keyboard shortcuts). The interface is very
straightforward: click on the written planches on the left an right parts
of the screen to perform the relevant actions, and on the level area to
change the bubble color; use the "void" bubble (or right-click) to
remove a bubble.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h , \ --help
show command-line options summary
.TP
.BR -fs , \ --fullscreen
start in fullscreen mode
.TP
\fB-ls\fIFILENAME\fR, \fB--levelset\fIFILENAME\fR
directly start with the specified levelset name
.TP
\fB-l\fINUMB\fR, \fB--level\fINUMB\fR
directly start the level number
.IR NUMB
.TP
.BR -cb , \ --colourblind
use special bubbles for colourblind people

.SH KEY SHORTCUTS
The following key shortcuts are available during level edition:
.TP
.BR F1
displays the help dialog
.TP
.BR p , \ h , \ left
previous level
.TP
.BR n , \ l , \ right
next level
.TP
.BR up
first level
.TP
.BR down
last level
.TP
.BR a
append level
.TP
.BR i
insert level
.TP
.BR d
delete level
.TP
.BR ]
move level right
.TP
.BR [
move level left
.TP
.BR j
jump to level (after \fBj\fR, enter level number, then \fBReturn\fR)
.TP
.BR o
open levelset
.TP
.BR s
save levelset
.TP
.BR f
toggle fullscreen
.TP
.BR q , \ Escape
quit
.TP
During dialogs, you may use \fBReturn\fR to accept and \fBEscape\fR to cancel.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kim Joham and David Joham <[k|d]joham at yahoo.com>.
Integration work by Guillaume Cottenceau <guillaume.cottenceau at free.fr>.
This manual page was written by Guillaume Cottenceau.

.br
Visit official homepage: http://www.frozen-bubble.org/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR frozen-bubble(6)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002, 2003 Kim Joham and David Joham <[k|d]joham at yahoo.com>.

.br
This is Free Software; this software is licensed under the GPL version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
