.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"

.TH FROZEN-BUBBLE 6 "June, 2008" "FB" "The Frozen-Bubble game"

.SH NAME
frozen-bubble \- arcade/reflex game

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B frozen-bubble
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBFrozen-Bubble\fR game is a free software implementation of
a popular arcade/reflex game. The game mainly consists of firing
randomly chosen bubbles across the board. If the shoot ends up
having a clump of at least 3 bubbles of the same color, they all
pop. If some bubbles were sticked only on the popping clump, they
fall. In 1-player mode, the goal is to pop all the bubbles on the
board as quickly as possible. In 2-players or network mode, you
have to get your opponent to "die" before you.

.SH CONTROL
The default controlling mechanism is through the keyboard, but
you can play with a joystick or a joypad if it is supported by
the system (use the commandline option \fB-ji\fR to make sure
frozen-bubble detected your joysticks). A key (or a joystick
direction or button) is needed for moving the aim to the left,
moving the aim to the right, center, and fire.

.SH 1-PLAYER GAME
In single player mode, as a beginner the best training is to
choose \fBPlay Default Levelset\fR, which lets you run through
100 levels of an increasing difficulty. Pop all the bubbles of
each level to advance to the next level.

If you want to train for multiplayer, choose \fBMultiplayer
Training\fR which reproduces the conditions of 2-player or
network mode; the only difference is that created malus bubbles
are counted in your score, and you must get the highest score you
can in 2 minutes.

.SH 2-PLAYERS GAME
In 2-players mode, you can play against a friend (or a foe,
actually) on the same computer. The board is populated with
random bubbles, and your goal is to make big clumps to send malus
bubbles to your opponent.

.SH NETWORK GAME
If your computer has networking, you can choose LAN GAME to play
games against others on your local network (up to 5 players).
Frozen-Bubble will look for a game server on the local network
with a UDP broadcast, connect to it if found, or start a new game
server if not found.

If your computer is connected to Internet, you can choose NET
GAME to play against others on Earth (or beyond?). Frozen-Bubble
will retrieve the server list from the master server and propose
you to choose between available servers. The flag in front of a
server indicates the preferred language for chatting with others
before the game is started. The ping is the roundtrip when
talking with the server, choose a low ping when possible.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --help
show command-line options summary
.TP
.BR --fullscreen
start the game in fullscreen mode
.TP
.BR --no-fullscreen
don't start the game in fullscreen mode
.TP
.BR --no-sound
disable music and sound effects
.TP
.BR --no-music
disable music (but not sound effects)
.TP
.BR --no-sfx
disable sound effects (but not music)
.TP
\fB--playlist \fIdirectory\fR
use all files of the given directory as music files and play them
.TP
\fB--playlist \fIfile\fR
use all files listed in the given file as music files and play them
.TP
.BR --slow-machine
use this option if
.B frozen-bubble
runs too slowly on your machine (disables a few animations)
.TP
.BR --very-slow-machine
same as before, if it is not enough (disables all that can be disabled)
.TP
.BR --solo
directly start solo (1p) game, with random levels
.TP
.BR --direct
directly start 2p game (don't display menu)
.TP
\fB--gameserver \fIhost[:port]\fR
directly start NET/LAN game connecting to this game server (if
port is omitted, default port is used)
.TP
.BR --chain-reaction
enable chain-reaction
.TP
\fB--level \fInumber\fR
start directly the game, at level \fInumber\fR
.TP
.BR --colour-blind
use special bubbles for colourblind people
.TP
.BR --no-time-limit
disable time limit for shooting (e.g. kids mode)
.TP
\fB--player-malus \fInumber\fR
add \fInumber\fR malus to the left player (can be negative -
doesn't work in network mode)
.TP
\fB--mp-training-difficulty \fInumber\fR
set the average duration between receiving malus bubbles in 1
player multiplayer training (default 30 (= every 30 seconds on
average), the lower the harder)
.TP
\fB--joysticks-info\fR
print information about detected joystick(s) on startup (if
Frozen-Bubble doesn't see your joysticks/joypads, try loading
the joydev module with \fBmodprobe joydev\fR as root, then
retry)
.TP
\fB--no-echo\fR
when sound is enabled, disable echoing each typed character with
a typewriter sound (it may get on your nerves)
.TP
\fB--my-nick \fInick\fR
for NET/LAN games, use this nick instead of username (max 10
chars, ASCII alphanumeric plus dash and underscore only) - notice
that the /nick command is also available when connected to a
server to set your nick
.TP
\fB--private\fR
after connecting to a server for a NET game, don't use
http://hostip.info/ to retrieve your geographical position to
send it to other players
.TP
\fB--record \fIdirectory\fR
specify the recording directory (normally, records are saved in
the directory '.frozen-bubble/records' down your home directory)
.TP
\fB--auto-record\fR
automatically record all applicable games (normally, a record is
triggered by hitting the Print Screen key during a game)
.TP
\fB--comment \fI'...'\fR
add the comment enclosed between simple quotes to records (must
not contain anything else than ASCII), it will be shown on
console when playing back the record later
.TP
\fB--replay \fIrecord_file|URL\fR
playback the specified record file
.TP
\fB--save-frames \fIdirectory\fR
specify a directory where all (game) frames will be recorded; as the
game is slowed down, can only be used with --replay; warning, output
is huge as 50 frames of each 900 KB are saved per second (e.g. 43 MB
per second); a typical use case is then to build a video out of the
frames with e.g. this kind of command:

mencoder mf:///tmp/fbframes/frame* -mf fps=50 -o /tmp/output.avi -ovc lavc -lavcopts vcodec=mpeg4

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Guillaume Cottenceau.
This manual page was originally written by Josselin Mouette <josselin.mouette at ens-lyon.org>.
.br
Visit official homepage: http://www.frozen-bubble.org/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR frozen-bubble-editor(6)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2008 The Frozen-Bubble Team.
.br
This is Free Software; this software is licensed under the GPL version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
